Capstone (#31)
EDUCE-UBC/MICB425: treesapp_abundance.Rmd

## Overview

> Genome assemblies are lossy. Whenever you assemble a (meta)genome from reads, the abundance information is effectively lost, even if it is noted in the FASTA headers by some assemblers. One way to recover these read-level abundances is by aligning the reads back to the contigs and calculating the number of reads that mapped to each. One can go a step further still and use relative abundance normalization measures popular in transcriptomics, such as fragments per kilobase per million mappable reads (FPKM) or transcripts per million (TPM) @Wagner.2012.

Reviewer: I really did mean lossy - as in data is lost. But I should clearly use a different word :)

> Genome assemblies are lousy. Whenever you assemble a (meta)genome from reads, the abundance information is effectively lost, even if it is noted in the FASTA headers by some assemblers. One way to recover these read-level abundances is by aligning the reads back to the contigs and calculating the number of reads that mapped to each. One can go a step further still and use relative abundance normalization measures popular in transcriptomics, such as fragments per kilobase per million mappable reads (FPKM) or transcripts per million (TPM) @Wagner.2012.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The genome assembly process fails to retain all information from the inputs. Whenever you assemble a (meta)genome from reads, the abundance information is effectively lost, even if it is noted in the FASTA headers by some assemblers. One way to recover these read-level abundances is by aligning the reads back to the contigs and calculating the number of reads that mapped to each. One can go a step further still and use relative abundance normalization measures popular in transcriptomics, such as fragments per kilobase per million mappable reads (FPKM) or transcripts per million (TPM) @Wagner.2012.
```
